Monthly newsletter for February 2021 (#193)
fortran-lang/fortran-lang.org: _posts/2021-02-01-Fortran-Newsletter-February-2021.md

---
layout: post
title: "Fortran newsletter: February 2021"
category: newsletter
author: Sebastian Ehlert
---

Welcome to the February 2021 edition of the monthly Fortran newsletter.
The newsletter comes out at the beginning of every month and details
Fortran news from the previous month.

<ul id="page-nav"></ul>

## fortran-lang.org

This month we've had a few updates to the website:

> * [#190](https://github.com/fortran-lang/fortran-lang.org/pull/190) (WIP):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#190](https://github.com/fortran-lang/fortran-lang.org/pull/190):
```

[Let us know](https://github.com/fortran-lang/fortran-lang.org/issues) if you have any suggestions for the website and its content.
We welcome any new contributors to the website and the tutorials page in particular - see the [contributor guide](https://github.com/fortran-lang/fortran-lang.org/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) for how to get started.

## Fortran Standard Library

Here's what's new in `stdlib`:

* [#303](https://github.com/fortran-lang/stdlib/pull/303),
  [#301](https://github.com/fortran-lang/stdlib/pull/301),
  [#294](https://github.com/fortran-lang/stdlib/pull/294):
  Fixes and improvements for the manual Makefile build
* [#293](https://github.com/fortran-lang/stdlib/pull/293):
  Write a more verbose introduction to building stdlib
* [#291](https://github.com/fortran-lang/stdlib/pull/291):
  Export package files (CMake and pkg-config)
* [#290](https://github.com/fortran-lang/stdlib/pull/290):
  Rename CMake project from stdlib to fortran\_stdlib
* [#288](https://github.com/fortran-lang/stdlib/pull/288):
  Follow GNU install conventions
* [#284](https://github.com/fortran-lang/stdlib/pull/284):
  Required changes to be able to use `stdlib` as a subproject in CMake

> * [CMake example](https://github.com/fortran-lang/stdlib-cmake-example)
>   integration of the Fortran standard library in CMake projects

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [CMake example](https://github.com/fortran-lang/stdlib-cmake-example):
  Integration of the Fortran standard library in CMake projects
```

* Improve the documentation.

The short-term goal of fpm is to make development and installation of Fortran packages with dependencies easier.
Its long term goal is to build a rich and decentralized ecosystem of Fortran packages and create a healthy
environment in which new open source Fortran projects are created and published with ease.

## Compilers

### Classic Flang

TODO

### LLVM Flang

TODO

Call notes will be sent to the _flang-dev_ email list and also recorded [here]( https://docs.google.com/document/d/10T-S2J3GrahpG4Ooif93NSTz2zBW0MQc_RlwHi0-afY).

## Events

* We had our 8th Fortran Monthly call on January 19.
You can watch the recording below:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/QfiBUAgI3kw" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

* This year fortran-lang will be applying as a mentor organisation for [Google Summer of Code](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/).
We have started working on the application and the project ideas; you can join the ongoing discussion [here](https://github.com/fortran-lang/fpm/discussions/339).

> If you'd like to help us flesh out the ideas, or have a project idea of your own, please join our upcoming video call on (Milan TODO).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you'd like to help us flesh out the ideas, or have a project idea of your own, please join our upcoming video call on Tuesday (2/2) at 3 pm Eastern Time (see call info [here](https://github.com/fortran-lang/fpm/discussions/339#discussioncomment-326239)).
```

* OpenMP - add task_reduction clause, make reduction clause part of OmpClause
* New Driver - adding support for various options, testing improvements, standard macro pre-definitions, fixed-form detection, CMake improvements
* OpenACC - semantic checks to enforce declare directive restrictions
* Internal subprogram improvements
* OpenMP/OpenACC - Extend CheckNoBranching to handle branching provided by LabelEnforce
* Disallow `INTENT` attribute on procedure dummy arguments
* Module file improvements and bug fixes
* Add tests for procedure arguments with implicit interfaces

Call notes will be sent to the _flang-dev_ email list and also recorded [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/10T-S2J3GrahpG4Ooif93NSTz2zBW0MQc_RlwHi0-afY).

## Events

* We had our 8th Fortran Monthly call on January 19.
You can watch the recording below:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/QfiBUAgI3kw" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

* This year fortran-lang will be applying as a mentor organisation for [Google Summer of Code](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/).

> We have started working on the application and the project ideas; you can join the ongoing discussion [here](https://github.com/fortran-lang/fpm/discussions/339).
> If you'd like to help us flesh out the ideas, or have a project idea of your own, please join our upcoming video call on Tuesday (2/2) at 3 pm Eastern Time (see call info [here](https://github.com/fortran-lang/fpm/discussions/339#discussioncomment-326239)).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We have started working on the application and the project ideas; you can join the ongoing discussion [here](https://fortran-lang.discourse.group/t/google-summer-of-code-2021/658).
If you'd like to help us flesh out the ideas, or have a project idea of your own, please join our upcoming video calls on February 9 and 16 (call info will be posted in the Discourse thread), or write directly in the Discourse thread.
```
